Add Ambassadors Program article (#767)
json-schema-org/website: pages/blog/posts/json-schema-ambassadors.md

I'm personally very excited to see this program come to life. Recognizing our community champions in a meaningful and sustainable way has always been a goal. The Ambassadors Program is our first step in publicly supporting our most experienced and helpful members.

We have many community members who frequently help others, provide feedback, answer questions, and debug schemas and code. They also assist newcomers in avoiding basic misconceptions. JSON Schema wouldn't be where it is today without this support.

## The time is right - we are growing

For the past few years, a small team has worked full time on JSON Schema, focusing on ongoing projects. Now, we have the capacity to launch new initiatives, including this Ambassadors Program. We want to better recognize and support those who are giving back to our community.

We are better placed today than we ever have been to support and empower our existing ambassadors, and build a program which recognizes and supports them to further their efforts. It's always encouraging to see others as excited about JSON Schema as you are.

> "The new website, and assorted outreach programmes have started to connect the huge JSON Schema user base, and we've really started to see the benefit in terms of the number of people actively participating." - Matthew Adams - Founder at [Endjin](https://endjin.com) - Candidate Ambassador.

Reviewer: Matthew is now TSC.  Wouldn't that mean he's no longer an ambassador candidate?

Author: For both Matthew and Juan, no, not at all. You can be both.
They have different expectations and responsibilities.
Someone who is a TSC member doesn't necessarily write lots of content or do talks.
Someone who is an Ambassador doesn't necessarily want to provide opinion on specification developments.

Reviewer 2: They still qualify to be ambassadors. The only thing is they can't vote themselves (self-approve their PR)

## How we benefit, from today

When thinking about our programs, two aspects we should consider are how they will impact the project overall, and the community. These are not the only aspects, but ones I want to touch on in this context.

### As a Project

Having ambassadors not only recognizes individual contributions but also benefits JSON Schema. It will increase visibility and encourage positive community engagement.

Despite JSON Schema's presence, many still see it as part of another standard. By promoting JSON Schema through various channels, we enhance its recognition and usage. This increased visibility can attract more sponsorships, funding further programs like the Ambassadors Program and fostering a better ecosystem. It's a positive cycle; once we start, momentum will help us grow.

As the project thrives, so too does our community. The Ambassadors Program brings several benefits specifically for our community.

> "The community is very friendly, welcoming, and extremely smart. I already learnt a LOT by participating in it. I want the JSON Schema ecosystem to grow, as it will likely power my business as a result. The Ambassadors Program is a great opportunity to recognise key contributors and encourage them to continue being involved." - Juan Cruz Viotti - Founder and CTO at [Intelligence.AI](https://intelligence.ai) - Candidate Ambassador

Reviewer: Same with Juan.

Author: Covering with the other comment.

Further, we don't require or even expect that all the content ambassadors produce will go onto the project's website. No. There's actually improved reach by ambassadors using their existing channels to reach their community, hopefully expanding the JSON Schema community in addition to educating other spaces.

## A portrait of an Ambassador

We've long planned the Ambassadors Program and have identified initial candidates. (You can nominate yourself or others!) Here are the qualities we seek in ambassadors.

Firstly, an ambassador has to be with the community. This means in the slack server, on Github, and occasionally on calls or other places representing or being a recognised expert or source of knowledge for JSON Schema.

Critically, we expect ambassadors to be aligned with the JSON Schema project's mission and values, be respectful of our code of conduct, and continue to be active in the community.

## Recognising our Ambassadors from the community

> We easily identified several community members to invite into the Ambassadors Program. The TSC and full time staff spend a LOT of time in our community spaces, so even if we don't always reply or comment, we do notice those who are active and helpful.

Reviewer: > full time staff

This makes it sound like JSON Schema is the employer.  Maybe "full time members"?

Reviewer 2: I agree. There is no employer and there is no staff, just contributors, some of them lucky to be paid to work full time in the project.

```suggestion
We easily identified several community members to invite into the Ambassadors Program. The TSC and the Community Team spend a LOT of time in our community spaces, so even if we don't always reply or comment, we do notice those who are active and helpful.
```

When I first started the JSON Schema Slack server, the numbers were very few. Gradually, it grew. The core team answered most of the questions. I recall the feeling when I came back in the morning to find other people had answered questions from the community while I'd been asleep. I've previously [recognised](https://words.benhutton.me/2023-05-23-two-words-big-win) that saying "thank you" can be a big win, but I also know that we can do several magnitudes better.

We already have several members of our community who have become ambassadors for JSON Schema, just without any sort of formal recognition. Recognising, supporting, and further enabling these individuals, and new ambassadors, is going to have a positive impact, and I can't wait to see what it unlocks for JSON Schema in the future.

There's a swag kit for all accepted into the Ambassadors Program, and I can't wait to meet the individuals excited and proud to be wearing the exclusive swag at events and conferences in the future. We see you, ambassadors!

## How to apply today

> OK, OK. If you've read all the above, maybe you haven't yet made it to the [Ambassador Program documentation file in our community repo](https://github.com/json-schema-org/community/tree/main/programs/ambassadors). That would be your next stop if you're thinking about applying to become an ambassador.

Reviewer: Personal taste: I prefer shorter links because I find the link formatting difficult to read or distracting.  I'd move "in our community repo" out of the link.  (Keep the text, just not linked.)

Reviewer 2: I created this url using a redirect: https://json-schema.org/ambassadors

Reviewer: I'm not talking about the URL.  I'm talking about the link text.

Reviewer 2: Still the new url is better.

> OK, OK. If you've read all the above, maybe you haven't yet made it to the [Ambassador Program documentation file in our community repo](https://github.com/json-schema-org/community/tree/main/programs/ambassadors). That would be your next stop if you're thinking about applying to become an ambassador.

Reviewer 2: I created this url using a redirect: https://json-schema.org/ambassadors

```suggestion
OK, OK. If you've read all the above, maybe you haven't yet made it to the [Ambassador Program documentation file in our community repo](https://json-schema.org/ambassadors). That would be your next stop if you're thinking about applying to become an ambassador.
```
